Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 
I expected it to control the rest of the program.
Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 
Registered my text and gave back a line of text. 
What do you think the program did with what you typed?
Saved it as information. 


Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 
It includes the command, "color = input()"
What do you think the color = input() will do? 
It will turn the variable "color" into whatever is input. 
Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?
Yes, and then it printed the color I chose. 


Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
It contains an if statement. 
What is happening on lines 11–14? 
The program is stating that if the variable "color" is set as red, then that will be a correct response.
Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 
Because they are part of the if statement. 
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 
Sorry, try again is printed. 
What does this tell you about "color"?
The text is specific to "Red" to be correct. 


Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
The program includes "or" to get a corect response from "red"
What problem is this trying to solve? 
That the answer to the question must be capitalized. 
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?

"Sorry, try again."

Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 
Only print correct responses based on letters, not capitalization. 
What problem is it trying to solve? 
The capitalization issue. 
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?

An incorrect response is received. 

Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 
It includes .strip()
What would you guess .strip() is doing? 
Taking away the spacing restriction. 
Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?
Yes, "r  e  d"


Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 
Writing pink will return the text, "Close!"
What is the purpose of line 11? 
Creates some rules to govern the variable "color"
Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 
I am not sure. 
Why are lines 12–19 indented? 
They are commands to enact after a rule was stated. 
Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 
I am not sure. 
Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.
Close! was stated many times when pink was input. 
red gave no response. 

Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 
There is a "while" function that defines the correct answer for the question. 
What is the purpose of “count”? 
To see how many tries it takes to get the right answer. 
What is happening on line 22? 
The number of tries is being written as text after the correct answer is obtained. 
Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?